central banks are notorious for acting
within the shadows creating the policy
of a nation without the consent or
oversight of anyone who is actually
accountable their plans are only made
public after they are put into effect
but of course as Alan Greenspan once
said there is no agency which can
overrule our decisions
that's a blunt statement you came here
for the truth today we are going to look
at how the central banks used this to
collapse the markets I'm going to start
off with two recommendations that you
need to look into number one the
creature from Jekyll Island one of the
greatest books that I have ever read
many of you have read this book if you
haven't then you need to commit to it
it's a large book but there's so much
detail in it and yet it is easy to
understand G Edward Griffin is an
amazing author very simple yet the
subject is quite complicated so I read
this book prior to writing my own book
and that is the money
GPS I'm going to be heavily biased and
if you haven't read this already then I
definitely recommend it
this is my first book and I took some
pointers from the creature from Jekyll
Island as well as many many other books
and simplified it dumbed it down to such
a level that individuals with no
experience whatsoever can understand
what's going on
now you get into the history you get
into all the details and I think that it
is a great introduction to the creature
from Jekyll Island in some ways so
that's number two and number three is
this this is directly from the feds
website you need to know about liquidity
liquidity is the most important factor
for how Crash's collapses calamities
Corrections how they are all made
the central banks hold the power in
their hands to create a boom or a bust
at any moment I assure you I am not
exaggerating I am NOT basically talking
out of my you know what this is a fact
they literally hold the power in their
hands and liquidity is the key you can
look at this or you can just type in
central bank liquidity into a search
engine and understand what it is I
assure you this is what you need to know
it's not about particular banks it's not
about stock trading or bonds or spying
and selling and everything else you need
to understand how liquidity works
particularly you want to talk about that
with the central banks because of course
liquidity is sort of a generalized term
but I'm talking about how the central
banks use liquidity this website has a
pretty good breakdown of what that all
means and then understand that to a
deeper level of how they use it to
basically decide at any moment when the
crash should happen they can dry up all
of that liquidity and watch it all come
down this is genius on their part
because they own and control the system
if you think that the Federal Reserve or
the ECB or the Bank of Japan and they
all act alone you don't know how it
works they are all in it together that's
a fact okay so that's the three
important things that I want to discuss
now let me get into the topics for today
here relevant market size estimates and
the share owned by central banks as of
mid August 2017 so we're looking at new
information here
government debt now we know the central
banks around the world own a lot of
government debt it is incredible to see
that Japan basically owns half of the
debt I'd like to know who owns the rest
of it because I quite frankly do not
believe that the central bank is
you know really 90% of the buyers out
there they probably own it through
subsidiaries or they have corporations
that are out there buying up to debt I
mean it's just the way that I believe
from other statistics I have read
looking at the Fed we're looking at 23%
of the market and of course you have the
in the UK and in the eurozone as well
central banks owned a very large percent
of the debt it doesn't matter if this is
the right number or the wrong number we
know that they're purchasing every
single month and that is going on on a
global scale you are seeing what central
banks have the power to do they are
bigger than any corporation they are
bigger than the markets in some cases
simply because they can buy every share
and send prices to the moon they can do
that
they could do that with equities they
can do that with government debt they
hold the power but they also held the
power to dry up that liquidity at any
moment a visual comparison of the share
of central bank ownership in each market
so we're looking at that in a different
way to look at it basically we're
clearly I mean despite the fact that all
of these are terrible when you compare
that to where Japan is you can see that
they are in very big trouble and to even
suggest that an asset-backed security is
an asset to begin with is fraud but
something that a central bank would want
to hold I mean what kind of investor
would want to hold on to this garbage
nobody that's why the central bank buys
it up they know they don't have to worry
about being bailed out if something bad
happens they just get the return on it I
mean they're a business just like any
other except the fact when when they are
nearing bankruptcy they can just print
money and somehow figure it all out I
mean it's a joke they operate as a
business yet they hold the power to
print the money it doesn't make sense to
me
I just nobody really thinks of it like
that they mean the general public the
mainstream media you're talking about a
business they act without oversight or
accountability at all and then on the
other end I mean they're they have
literally have the printing press they
can decide as much for how much money is
out there at any moment they can pull it
back and they can cause a collapse they
can push it out there and cause massive
amounts of bubbles that we see today
it's all up to them whether they want to
bring interest rates that up or down or
anything else they hold the power in
their hands moving on all right you know
the cspp have covered it here on the
channel before basically what do you do
when you have a lot of companies who
need your support well if you're the
central bank what you will do is simply
print up a lot of money and you'll buy
all of the garbage debt created by these
failing institutions institutions that
should have been wiped out or some of
them that should have been hurting
pretty bad will do okay simply because
you have a program like the cspp and
that is programmed by the ECB to buy up
a whole bunch of garbage print the money
out of thin air and do what they said
they were never going to do do what they
promised that they would never do and do
what signed on paper that they can't do
but yet they do it anyway there's always
loopholes around not for you and I
before the bank the big bankers all
right so I mean we don't really have to
get into the details of it but
essentially here I just found it
interesting to see that France Germany
are on the top of this list so they're
helping out their friends and friends in
Germany first then we look at Italy and
Spain next Italy and Spain are
absolutely the next and the crosshairs
I'm surprised they haven't already fell
already particularly with Italy because
it has such a burden on it in many
different ways
this is
I think it's one of the most important
countries to look for one of the next
dominoes to fall the country is strained
to the maximum it doesn't have the
economy that at once did and you can see
that it is hemorrhaging under the
control of the eurozone it can't handle
it the EU is detrimental to Italy it
really shouldn't be a part of it this
right here you could see that the sp500
dipping below the 50-day moving average
now I'm not a big fan of the moving
averages I mean it seems to me like
these are more for the technical
analysis people and I just like to cover
it here because I know a lot of people
do cover this do want to know what's
going on with it
I mention it but I don't put any
necessary weight on exactly what it all
means in the near future because on a
longer term scale it really is
insignificant as far as I'm concerned
but traders use this type of information
so in the short term it is actually
quite relevant because you can see that
the algorithms really pick up on this
type of information so it dip below but
who knows where this will go you don't
have it to have any worries because the
central banks will be there to print up
a lot of money so look at this
facilitating recovery comes at a high
cost to the future this is three
separate swings that we've seen and this
is on the left hand side you can see
that this is the Greater London area
real estate prices spiking excessively
high and not to be outdone Bitcoin going
through the roof here in a very short
period of time that has gone to levels I
mean it's showing you that really
outdated it's gone much much further
than that right through the sky and on
the right-hand side old cars selling
like never before 3 most expensive cars
sold at auction per year you can see the
direction that
heading as well it seems like there are
some individuals that have more and more
wealth than ever there are some assets
that are doing better than ever before
and then on the other end of the
spectrum you have homeless people on
every single corner you have people who
can afford their homes if people living
in their cars people living in tents and
you had this grand let's call it a
disparity or or a chasm in between the
rich and the poor that middle class is
evaporating you see that not just in the
big cities but you see that in the small
towns as well where we have maximum
poverty and it's all being covered up
because of the way that the statistics
work look if you're going to sell ten
homes worth ten million dollars and that
looks good on paper at the same time ten
people are now living on the streets the
numbers really get skewed because you
don't really factor those ten homeless
people in it's not really the way that
things should be but that's the way it
is that's all I mentioned with this your
opinions on certain assets you know you
can mention those in the comments asset
prices versus GDP I think that the GDP
first of all is significantly lower who
knows where the actual real thing is but
let's just say it's let's even just say
we're where is that it doesn't matter
always it always goes and exceeds where
it should be
falls back down to a more reasonable
level exceeds falls back down to a
reasonable level and exceeds yet again
and now if we can tell where this is
going to happen we can basically do a
dotted line and it could go as far as 10
years from now who knows and this will
spike further and further and further
but when it comes down it has to go back
to the GDP line it has to come close to
it
- let's quote unquote reality here
that's the way I see it this is the way
that people should be looking at things
but they don't they only see the dotted
line they don't see what's happening
with the correlation in between the two
they may say okay well GDP should
continue to rise at this percentage per
year but they do not look at where it
has to head if history is any guide and
what I also you may want to notice is
the fact that in previous two instances
look at these where you can see that the
angle the risk of that drop that it
comes down the asset asset prices was
more significant during the last time
than the time before
and then the time before that and so we
can presume that this will be even more
devastating even more of a violence drop
down the central banks will react
accordingly and I do believe that they
will overreact that is my prediction
after a real deflation exists the
central banks will ramp up the printing
presses and everything will head to the
moon but not before that deflation if
you found this video informative please
give me a thumbs up if you're not
already then you need to get on to steam
it and I have the links in the
description below so check those out I'm
on steam it I post all of these videos
on there so you could support me on
there if you are on there as well if not
basically it's it's a cryptocurrency
based blockchain based video platform or
blog platform for individuals anybody
can get on there you can sign up you can
earn some cryptocurrency but even if
you're not interested in it it's
basically an alternative to this place
you're seeing it right now can't mention
the name alright so that's all if you
found this video informative I know you
will find my books the money GPS that I
meant
at the beginning of the video and my
newer release global economic collapse
so you can flip through these books the
links are in the description below take
care